In this lesson we're going to talk about
iterators and dictionaries.
Let's start out first by creating a new
program.
We'll call it dictioniter.py.
And let's create a very simple dictionary.
Let's just call it grades.
And we'll set a couple of names and
grades, just
to have something to work with, and that's
good enough.
Normally when we write a loop through a
dictionary, we use the following pattern.
We pull out each key out of the keys
function, and print the key
and then the value associated with the key
by indexing into the dictionary, like so.
So let's run this real quick.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So there are three names and grades.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
And you might think it's kind of hard for
a dictionary
to have an iterator, since we have a more
complex data type.
Since we have dictionary with key value
pairs.
And it's true that we can't have an
iterator return both the
key and the value, but we can have an
iterator into the keys.
So let me demonstrate how that works.
So we'll create an interator.
We can create an iterator into the
dictionary by calling the iter
function with our dictionary as the
argument, and assign it to a variable.
In this case we use i t.
Then we can write print, next, it, and
let's see what that gives us.
So it gives us the first key, Clayton.
So if we do it again, it should give us
the second key, or the next key.
Remember, dictionaries, you don't really
talk about
order in terms of first and second.
All right, so there are our first two
keys.
And if we ran it again, we get the third
key.
And we don't need to do that.
So what that means, having an iterator
into the keys, is that we can write a for
loop where we just access each key in the
dictionary, and we can then access all the
values.
So let's run this again.
So there you see, we have the same result
as
we got in this loop using a less complex
statement.
Which means of course that your program is
easier to
read, and that it's probably going to be
more efficient.
So, that's how iterators work with
dictionaries.
Now we're ready to move to the last lesson
in this chapter, where we're going
to look at just a miscellaneous group
of other iterators that are available in
python.